2/19/2018 
Points to research:
K-Curvature 
RGB to grayscale conversion 
edge detection 
SVM
HMM
Convex HUll Method
Microsoft Kinect sensor 
Kalman filters
thresholding
thresholding using Ostu’s method
static threshold value, incremental thresholding value, 
color based thresholding, background subtraction
convexity defect 
canny edge detection algorithm 
skin detection using hue and saturation values
Gaussian Model(GMM), Gaussian Mixture Model(GMM) - Parametric techniques (x,y,z)
Histogram Base Techniques (Based on data input)
r-g, and HS color spaces
HSV color model, YCbCr color space, normalized r-g color space
Hough Algorithm

Artificial Nueral Network (*)
-The whole process can also be done with the help of Artificial Neural Network (ANN)
-ANN algorithm is used to train the system and concluded that edge detection and 
ANN provides good solution for hand gesture recognition
-Self-Growing and Self-Organized Neural Gas (SGONG) neural algorithm to capture the shape of the hand (Feature Extraction)
-Learning Vector Quantization, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) are used for classification 

Intro
-Gesture is a form of nonverbal communication or non vocal communication in which visible bodily movement 
communicate particular messages. Gesture includes movement of hands, face or other parts of the body.

-A Gesture is categorized into two distinctive categories Dynamic and Static
 
-Dynamic gesture is intended to change over a period of time where as a static gesture is observed at the spurt time. 


Two approaches are commonly used :

1. Methods which use Data gloves: mechanical or optical sensors are attached to a glove that transduces finger
 flexions into electrical signals for determining the hand posture. This approach forces the user to 
carry a load of cables which are connected to the computer and hinders the ease and naturalness of the user interaction. 
2. Methods which are Vision Based: This method is based on the appearance of hand using skin color to segment 
the hand and extract necessary features. This is easy, natural, non invasive and less cost compared to other method

Applications :
Robot control, Television control, 3D modelling, Virtual Environments, Graphic Editor Control etc. 
A complete vision-based surgeon-computer interaction simulator
Security and Surveillance.
Sign Language Recognition 
Numbers Recognition

Ideads :
Red color marker on fingertip, only the finger wearing red color marker is detected and it us used for pointing on the computer screen

Methodology 
1.Collect the picture of gesture taken through the video camera.
2.Image frame is processed using image processing 
3.Processed image is used to extract features for gesture recognition. 
4.Counting number of fingers using the features extracted. 
4.Command signal is generated and passed to the device  According to the command, the device action takes place. 

Architecture:
1.Capture the image through the web camera or camera.
2.Convert the image from RGB to Gray Scale. 
3.Background is separated by subtracting image from the captured background. 
4.Binary conversion is done to apply edge detection.
5.Then K-Curvature algorithm (Others May Be Used) is applied for hand gesture recognition. 
6.The recognized gesture command is sent through serial interfacing and device controlling is done (To write on the screen)

Advantages Over Existing Systems 
1. Web cameras of  PC’s or Laptops can be used for capturing gesture inputs  (Cheap)
2. Provides flexibility  to the user and system is portable 
3. Each image frame is processed and the command is generated in real time. (Storage)
4.  It is rotation, scaling and orientation invariant (Does not matter)

Problems that may arise:
-illumination condition changes 
-different races
(May using data glove and colored markers)
-color spaces are sensitive to lighting changes, 
for this reason, researches tend to use chrominance components only and neglect the luminance components 
such as r-g, and HS color spaces (Maile ni bujina ahile lain)
-edge detection or contour operators  
cannot be used for gesture recognition since many hand postures are generated
and could produce misclassification

 Things to look out for:
 the arm must be vertical, the palm is facing the camera, background is uniform


